who were friends of his and they talked about
things that they thought were important.
We went to a couple of plays and things of that
nature. I think that must have been the time we all
stayed at the Shamrock Hotel in Houston that was
near the medical center. But it was particularly
nice and a very enjoyable trip. My wife and I went on
that one time as, quote, faculty. And I remember
Bob Sackowitz showing us how to pour wine. You pick
up the wine bottle with your finger like this, and
you pour the wine. And then you turn the wine bottle
and lift it up, and you don't drip the wine. And we
went to ballet and to a concert. And it was
meaningful. Did you ever have, a few people shared
with me, advisor conversations where they had not
been doing their best, and some advisor got
through to them in a special way. Did you ever have
anybody kind of pick you off the floor? I don't
think so. I don't think so. probably at times that I
should have had that happen, but I don't remember
anybody just, I don't remember anybody either
chewing on me to do better, or the other side, I
don't remember anybody saying, you know, you can
do a lot better. I don't remember much
encouragement either. You're pretty much on your
own. All right, so... If we could get back all of the
faculty, staff, counselors, and so forth that
were there, are there any others that you haven't
mentioned that you would like to be able to say
thank you to? Oh, goodness. I'm sure there are. If I
probably thought back about it, I could make a much
longer list. The trouble with trying to recall
something like this at this time is I would leave
somebody out that I shouldn't. I
worked, when I was a senior, I was editor of the
Yearbook. And I worked with Lane Stevenson. And I
always thought Lane was a much older, more mature
guy. And I see him down there now. He was probably
just a few years older than I was. He and I went to
lunch Tuesday of this week. Good man, good man. But
he was just starting out then, I think, and he was in
the, he was the head of student publications.
Describe, haven't had anybody yet who's been the
yearbook editor. Describe what that involved.
Not surprisingly, at A&M it was different than it
was at that time than any other school in America.
I'm sure that at every other, I went to a couple of
workshops for a yearbook editor's article. And I
probably learned nothing because all of the
people who were in charge, who were editors, were
journalism majors. And really, at A&M, it was less
a journalistic function than a management
function because all of the work was done by the
court. And specifically, my outfit. My outfit had
been historically the yearbook and outfit. In
fact, I had a friend here in town who was 10 years
ahead of me, class of 59, but when he was yearbook
editor, he was in that outfit. So the editor of the
yearbook had traditionally come from that
outfit. But you'd have freshmen who would do most
of the work, indexing, gathering class pictures,
sorting it all out. So much of the work there was
done by freshmen and the poor. And it was a matter of
of just assembling that, making sure it was all
submitted properly. And then there were a few
other pages. We had a man who sold advertising. I
had a couple of assistant editors. One of the guys I
was smart enough, I think, to pick a guy who did have
some journalistic training. He was a
photographer. And he did a lot of picture taking
for us. So it mainly was a management exercise.
What was the process by which you were selected as
the editor? Was there a panel, a committee? There
were two or three people who applied. And as I think
we probably had to go through, Lane Stevenson
probably interviewed us. The final arbiter, the
final person that had to approve your selection
was Earl Rudder. And so I got the speech that Earl
gave just about everyone in those days. It had only
been about three years before that he'd had to fire
an editor of the battalion, Tommy DeFrank.
So I got the talk from President Rutter about how
When you do something, don't do anything that's
going to embarrass you or the university, which
was good advice, excellent advice. And that was at
a time when all over the country, all the other
student newspapers and organizations were
trying to establish their independence. And
President Rutter was wise enough to see that this
is something that you probably might be
embarrassed about later on if you do something
stupid. But he had to be the final person to approve
it. And Lane Stevenson was your day-to-day? He was
the person that I more or less reported to. Where
were the offices from? Senior, when I was a
freshman, maybe
through my junior year, they were just down in the
basement of the YMCA. Of the Y. But then, certainly
the senior year, And perhaps even the junior year,
I don't remember for sure, we had offices in what's
now the Reed McDonald building, where the
journalism department is. In fact, the editor of
the yearbook had an office over there. And it was an
excellent place sometimes to get out of the dorm
and just go over and study or go over and do what you
wanted to. Let's digress on Mr. Rutter. Go ahead.
describe physically, emotionally, describe
him? You know, I think the
students at A&M at that time probably well i'm sure
we didn't have any real appreciation for what type
of man he was he would about the only opportunity
most students had to be around him was we'd hear him
speak at various official functions and he
usually was kind of a dull speaker he'd go on and on
and as a result most of us just kind of tuned him out
and we didn't we didn't really have much
appreciation for him and probably the The closest
exposure most of us had was his dog that would run
around campus, Earl, and sort of a counterpart to
Reveille, because as beautiful a dog as Reveille
was, here was Earl, the ugliest bulldog that ever
lived. But I, in retrospect, I think we were all
dumb not to see what a remarkable man Earl Rucker
was. And if there is any one person that I think has
probably
catapulted A&M, jump-started us to where we are
now, it's Earl Rudd. And I think it's fitting that
on campus, there's a statue of him. Because if
there's two people, he and Sol Ross, probably are
the two people most prominent in developing A&M
from the start. Describe him physically in
reality, and then what he seemed like.
Well, I'm not sure I can really answer that very
well. Did he seem big or small? No, he seemed big to
me. And
that's because when I was in his later years, he put
on quite a bit of weight, I thought. And I don't
think he was, he was not a large man. But he seemed
heavy, he was heavy set. But he wasn't big. But yet
he had a very commanding presence. A very
commanding presence. I was telling some friends
of mine recently that I had an experience that was
one of those things that I just, even then, I
thought, well, this is pretty special, but I
didn't realize how special it was. I was in his
office one time, and it may have been on this
occasion when he was interviewing me, and he took a
phone call. He said, he apologized, had to take a
phone call. He came back, and he said that was CBS,
and he said, they're flying me to Normandy. to
recreate the 25th anniversary of D-Day. And he
said, I was just trying to make some arrangements
with them. And me, being at that time an Aggie
junior, this would have been the spring of 68, when
this happened, probably about the spring of 68.
And I said, you know, I've heard, that you did some
things in the war with these, but I don't really
have an idea about that. And he proceeded to spend
about 20 minutes. I was sitting in his office, and I
can still picture him getting up and going over and
getting some books out in his old white bookcase
along one side of the road, out by his desk. And I see
him pulling books out, and he come back and showed
me things that he did. And after that was through, I
had this, I walked back to the dorm and I had this
sense, you know, that was a remarkable
experience. And as time has gone on, I thought,
that was a remarkable experience. Did he describe
this with any emotion?
Yeah, he didn't become emotional, but it was
obvious that he was sort of enjoying it. And my
recollection of what he told me was more personal.
His account was more personal. It wasn't that,
well, I had two armies here. It was more a matter of,
well, now, here's something that I did at this
point. And it was a first person account of it. And I
thought later, that is amazing. This man took the
time to explain something like that to me. And over
the years, I've gotten to know, become acquainted
with Mrs. Rutter. And she's a remarkable,
gracious lady. But I've always thought about the
memory of that. And I just had a tremendous respect
for Mrs. Rutter. Did you students have any
nicknames for him privately? Oh, gosh. Yeah. I'm
not sure I can remember what, I know there was, I
suspect there were probably about any nicknames.
I can't remember specific ones. Like I'll bet he
was called Earl. Oh yeah, everybody referred to
him as Earl. Now he referred to himself sometimes
as Prexy because that's what the president had
been called when he was an undergraduate. I never
heard students use that for him though. No, I don't
think so. light bulb up on top of the academic
building was, in his day, called Prexy's Moon. And
in his undergraduate days, each freshman was
supposed to try to shoot out Prexy's Moon at least
once. And he mentioned Prexy's Moon once to me. I
didn't know what he was talking about. No, I didn't
know about that. All right, other characters.
What about in the Corps?
the commandant or any, were there, who was
commandant in those days? Well, I think it was, I
had to just go back and look. I was not, I was focused
on the core at that point. What about Dean of
Students? Dean Hannigan was Dean of Students. Did
you have any interaction? Never had any, never had
any interaction with him. All right. Malan
Sutherland was, who's now the Dean of Students.
What was his nickname?
Maybe it was fish drill team advisor. Slink.
Slink, okay, I don't think I heard. Wedge, do you
remember him? Simplest tool known to man, that was
another one. Where I'm headed is, do you remember
any faculty nicknames that you can share? Oh dear.
Square root Jackson, cube root Kent. You'd never
know them. Blue book Benton. Blue book Benton,
yeah, yeah. What
was it, the guy in the business school? Gosh,
what was his name? Oh dear. What was his name,
Screamin' Al? Screamin' Al Nelson? Yeah. Jock
Woods in Government, Notes Nance, Ivy Lee Taylor.
Now, were those nicknames terms of derision, or in
fact terms of kind of pleasant recognition? I
think it was pleasant recognition.
OK, so he's a character, but that's all right.
Yeah. I think that's one. In business, when you
were a business major, who was the key leader of the
business program overall? Who was the dean? Dean
Pearson. Did you ever have any interaction with
him? I don't remember. I may have met him once, but
there wasn't all that much. Let's go into the
classroom. How did students behave in the
classroom? They slept. Did you all go to class
regularly?
Some did, some didn't.
I think there was probably a greater premium on
class attendance then than perhaps there is now.
By far. And part of it, I think, is that in the core,
you had to get up. So if you were up, you might as well
go to class. If I were in a class where I wasn't doing
well, I darn sure would go. But no, I think there was
a greater emphasis on class attendance. And how
did students dress? Well, if you were in a corps,
you wore your uniform. What about the civilian
students? How did they dress?
Well, my recollection is they dressed fairly
decently. My daughter goes in t-shirts and jeans
now, and I don't think you saw that. I think the
female students, there would be one female
student sometimes in a class, and she was usually
dressed fairly nicely. And most of the civilian
students were dressed in slacks or jeans
sometimes, a nice sport shirt. I think there was a,
I wouldn't say more professional, Maybe some of
that was contributed to by the Corps. Those guys
were always in uniforms, and so they were always,
you know, shine shoes and that sort of thing. So
that may have raised the level. All right. Now, the
first coeds, were there coeds already there your
freshman year? I don't...
What was your freshman year? I was there in the fall
of 65. I don't remember any classes. I might have
had a class my freshman year with one girl, I don't
remember, but then certainly by the time
I was a junior, senior, particularly in business,
in liberal arts classes, you'd frequently have
one, two, three. Some of them were wives of
students, some of them were just girls from around
the area. But yeah, it wasn't as unusual. How did
you young men treat those females? You know, I
think for the most part, my sense is that most of the
time they just ignore them. But were they rude to
them? I think some probably were, but I'm sure that
if you talked to the girls, they would tell you how
all the comments, they were probably sensitive to
the comments, but I think for the most part, guys
just ignored them because they didn't really know
what to say. I don't remember too many situations
where there was an open abuse or, you know, get out
of here or anything like that. I'm sure that
happened to them and they tell you that, but I
didn't witness anything like that. One I tell on
myself. I had a class, a 1 o'clock class, on the
second floor of Nagel. And the history department
office was on the west end of that hallway. And for a
few months, there was an extremely shapely
part-time secretary in the history department.
And she would come after. She had a late lunch. And
at about 1.15 to 1.20, you'd hear these high heels.
And every guy in the room. would start staring. And
so one day, just as they were all, I went over and
closed the door. And I heard an epithet from the
back of the room aimed at me. Do you recall about
what it cost when you were a student? What did a
semester or a year cost?
I'm going to say a semester was somewhere under
$500 or so for everything. I can still remember
that, I can't remember exactly, tuition was $50,
you know, and I'm thinking that the room and board
was like $300 or something. I may be totally off,
but I can still remember that talking with my
father at one time and realizing that it was
cheaper for me to go to the school at A&M and live
down there than it would have been for me to live at
home and go to TCU. And did you earn any or all of that
money yourself?
When I became a junior and went on contract, Army
contract, I got a little pay for that. When I was a
senior, the
job as editor of the yearbook was a paying
position. I got some money. It was about $50, $75 a
month for that. But then what I'd do in the summers
is I'd work like everybody else. I went to summer
school some at UTA. Took two or three history
classes out there. Took history of England out
there. That was recommended if you thought about
law school when I was thinking about it. And so I'd
work, I'd go to school and then I'd work some more,
but I tried to do that so I'd have some spending
money. You didn't have a job, a full-time job? No,
no, not while I was in school. See, once I talked to
these people in the 30s and 40s, having a job,
particularly in the dining hall, was the end of the
rainbow to help Let's see, do you remember any
famous visitors to the campus? Politicians,
speakers, performers?
Oh yeah, I know we had them and I'm trying to think
of...
They'd have some performers come, you know, and
appear at G. Raleigh White.
Seems like that was about the time that they
started the Skona series, and I remember they'd
have some people come in for that, and I used to
enjoy coming over to some of those and listen.
Probably most of my friends thought that was very
stupid of me to do that, showing any interest at all
in anything. I don't think we had, we certainly
didn't have anywhere near the level of outside
speakers that they have now. Let's see, then
various organizations. What happened in or
around the YMCA? What was the why? What function
did it serve? You know, I think that was more, my
sense is that was more the sort of the focal point of
activity. Many of the student organizations had
offices there. Student housing was in there, as I
recall. And they had a lot of different student
organizations that would meet there, all the way
from religious organizations to hometown clubs
and all kinds of things like that. As I mentioned,
some of the student publications had their
offices in there early on. MSC. What role did the
MSC? The MSC was, I think they used to say it was the
living room of the campus, and I think that was
exactly right. You know, my goodness, when you got
to be a freshman year, you'd go over there to try to
avoid upperclassmen some, and when you got to be a
junior and senior, you'd go over there between
classes and sit with your buddies and drink
coffee, and I can still remember that Of course,
now they've got that big dining room area in the
MSC. But back in those days, they used to have about
two or three different type of coffee shops in
there. And, boy, you could just go in there and sit
for an hour. People would just come and sit down.
And then somebody would get up and leave and go to
class. Somebody else would come and sit down. You
could spend the whole morning over there if you
wanted to, visiting with friends. The barber shop
was over there where you could get your hair cut.
Those guys weren't the most skilled barbers. I'm
sure about all they knew was shaving heads. And
then there were all the activities that the MSC
sponsored. Alright, Guy and Hall. What role did it
play? Guy and Hall was used, in my recollection,
mainly when they wanted to have large meetings,
like class. I think we had class meetings over
there. I don't remember, it was not used as much
because when they wanted to, it was mainly a
theater. They had plays in there and things of that
nature. They weren't showing movies anymore,
were they? I don't believe they were. I don't
remember. I don't believe they were. Any large
shows that came would play in G. Robbie White. They
still had the theaters north of campus and campus
theater. But Guyon Hall was just sort of falling
into disuse as much as anything, as I remember.
Campus, either on campus or off campus religious
activities, did those affect you at all? Sure. I
come from a Baptist church here. My first year down
there, I went to church frequently. And the First
Baptist Church was right across the street from
the campus. And it's moved, but most of the other
churches are still there in the same location. And
I think as much as anything, those for students
were refuges from core things, if that's what they
were looking for. But I was not involved in many of
the, like a lot of the kids now are involved in
different student ministry activities. I wasn't
involved in that. Let's see. Help. me understand
the student body in general when you were there.
Basically, these students came geographically
from where? Cities, country, everywhere?
I've never thought about that specifically. I do
think that there were probably more students then
from small towns than there are now. But I think
it's also true that the largest number of students
came from the largest towns. It seemed like there
were more from Houston, San Antonio, I was always
amazed at A&M how many students there were from San
Antonio. It seemed like there were a huge number
from San Antonio. There weren't as many from Fort
Worth in those days. There seemed like a lot more
from Dallas. But then every time you meet someone,
there are so many from small towns in East Texas and
Central Texas.
And you find more from out of state, I think, too.
For some reason, I had the sense that there were
more out of state students then than perhaps there
are now. But that's just anecdotal. I don't know if
that's true. All right. If liberal is someone
receptive to change, conservative is someone
hesitant to change, attitudinally, what was the
student body like? As conservative as you could
get. in terms of religious affiliation? Were they
diverse or basically Protestant?
My sense is that it was more diversity than you
might think. Probably more Protestant. I can
still remember some Jewish people who were in
school when I was. Several Catholics. I think it
was a pretty good event. Do you remember any events
which indicated anything other than respect for
someone's religious... Oh, no. No, I don't.
I think that what I do remember is a lot of people who
were For the most part, when you took males who were
19 to 21 years old, there wasn't the strongest
religious devotion in any group like that. But I
never sensed any religious intolerance. Do you
remember any international students? Yes. There
were a lot of graduate students, of course, with
typical Aggie sensitivity. Most of them lived in a
dorm that was called the Black Hole of Calcutta.
But I remember
there was at least a couple of Korean students in an
accounting class I had. There were a smattering of
them, but I think they were mainly in graduate
school. Were there any black students? Sure. Oh,
yeah. Well, I say sure. There were at least two that
were in the Corps when I was. One of them was a very
good friend of mine. Another one, I didn't know him
well. He lives in Fort Worth now. I don't really, I
still don't really know him. This one you said was a
good friend of yours, isn't it? Bill Mayholmes.
Spell it. M-A-H-O-M-E-S. Bill was... Because,
see, those are... I want to... If I can, I want to try
to sell the idea that I should go interview some of
the first women and some of the first black
students. Because I have the impression that
there were no problems with the first black
students. I don't think there were any incidents.
There weren't any demonstrations. No
demonstrations. I think... I think Bill... Bill
would tell you that it was not easy. He and I had all
of our classes together our freshman year. We were
both in engineering. Both of us changed from that.
In fact, Bill was a good friend of mine. We went to
law school together. He went on to law school with
me. And he's done very well. But to compound his
situation, he stuttered, which I admire him for.
for staying with somebody. I wouldn't have been
tough enough to make it. But no, it had to have been
very difficult because
there was not the restriction Well,
upperclassmen in those days, you know, a freshman
is just a piece of property. And so there was
probably no limit on what freshmen, they would
feel no constraints. Upperclassmen would feel no
constraints on what they said to a freshman. Now,
was he a freshman the same way you were? So he's
among the first. I think he probably was the first
guy to ever go through four years. See, this is
another part of A&M's history that Mr. Rudder
handled well. He called the Pentagon, without any
of us knowing him, wearing those two stars as Major
General in the Reserve, and said, okay, we are
going to integrate. The board has backed me. That
hasn't publicly been announced. When you send
some of the active duty enlisted personnel, as you
normally do with the Army paying the bill, this
summer when you send some that are black, no
problem cases, nobody's got a conduct problem or a
grade problem, And Mr. Heaton then called every
faculty member and said, don't worry, when you
meet class tomorrow, they have been admitted.